Stage transitions are what happens between the stages of your pipeline.
Every pipeline is created with stage transitions enabled by default,
as it was when we created our demo pipeline. Stage transitions can be disabled,
and then progress of a pipeline execution would halt.
This can be useful if you want to freeze your pipeline.
It's especially useful if you have the pipeline connected to source control,
which may cause unnecessary builds as your team develops on an
application. Stage transitions aren't a good fit if you're looking for
a way to block the pipeline before deploying.
Manual approvals, which we looked at in the last module,
are a better fit for that.
Let's take a look at how to disable and enable stage transitions.
Open up your pipeline,
and between each stage you'll see a Disable transition button.
This is where you'll disable transitions,
so click the one between the source and build stages.
A modal will pop up and require you to add a reason.
This is a good place to put something like enable after June
15th, or write more integration tests.
Put a reason here and then click the Disable button.
Now you can see a small disabled icon has appeared and the
button changed to Enable transition.
If the source action were to be executed here from a commit to source control,
it wouldn't go any further, and the build stage would not be executed.
Now if we enable transitions,
the pipeline execution will continue based on the last change that took
place. There's no need to manually kick it off again.
Let's do that.
Click the Enable transition button.
You can see it gives you details with the reason we
entered and when it was disabled.
This is good information if you come back from the weekend and can't
really remember why you disabled transitions on your pipeline. Click
the Enable button, and your pipeline will go back to normal execution
if the source action has executed. And that's all you need to know about stage transitions.